T1. What is Natural Language Processing (NLP)?

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a branch of Artificial Intelligence (AI) that enables computers to understand, process, analyze, and generate human language. It acts as a bridge between humans and computers by converting human language into a format that computers can understand and process.


T2. Why do computers need NLP?

Computers understand only binary numbers (0s and 1s). Human language is complex because it contains grammar, spelling mistakes, emotions, and different meanings. NLP helps computers understand and interpret this language.
Example:
A chatbot on a shopping website understands customer questions like "Where is my order?" and provides the appropriate response.


T3. Four real-life applications of NLP

Chatbots – Answer customer queries automatically.
Machine Translation – Converts one language into another (e.g., English to Hindi).
Sentiment Analysis – Identifies whether text is positive, negative, or neutral.
Spam Detection – Detects unwanted emails or messages.


T4. What is a rule-based NLP system?

A rule-based NLP system follows predefined rules instead of learning from data.
Example:
If a message contains the word "Congratulations", it is marked as spam.

if "Congratulations" in message:
    print("Possible Spam")


T5. Seven steps of the NLP pipeline

Collect Text Data
Text Cleaning
Tokenization
Remove Stopwords
Stemming/Lemmatization
Feature Extraction
Train and Evaluate Machine Learning Model


T6. What is tokenization?

Tokenization is the process of breaking text into smaller units called tokens (words or sentences).
Example:
"I love NLP"
becomes
["I", "love", "NLP"]
It is necessary because machine learning models cannot process raw text directly.


T7. What are stopwords?

Stopwords are commonly used words that usually do not add significant meaning.
Examples:
is
the
and
They are removed to reduce unnecessary data and improve processing speed.


T8. Why convert text to lowercase?

Lowercasing treats words with different cases as the same word.
Example:
"Apple"
"APPLE"
"apple"
After lowercase:
apple
apple
apple
This avoids duplicate words.


T9. Four common mistakes beginners make in pandas

Forgetting to import pandas.
Using a wrong column name.
Using = instead of == while filtering.
Forgetting to handle missing values.


T10. Difference between = and ==

= assigns a value.
== compares two values.
Example:
x = 10
Assignment.
df[df["Sentiment"]=="Positive"]
Comparison.
Using = inside filtering causes a syntax error because Python expects a comparison.